now the UN Security Council has adopted
a resolution calling for Urgent extended
pauses in the Gaza Strip The Binding
text calls for humanitarian policies in
fighting and to allow Aid access but
doesn't use the term ceasefire it also
calls on Hamas and Israel to protect
civilians especially children it's the
first time the council has agreed on a
resolution since the conflict began the
security Council meanwhile the Israeli
Army has released a video which it says
provides evidence that Hamas was using
the alifa hospital in Gaza as a command
center complex Hamas denies the claims
and the images have not been
independently verified full military kit
for one Hamas terrorist a live grenade
ammunition fighting vest with Insignia
boots and of course uniforms and last
but not least standard AK-47
this footage says Israel is proof that
Hamas was using alifa hospital as a
command
center both Hamas and the hospital's
management denied the
claims but now the Israel Defense Forces
say they have
evidence Israel's military claim the
video shows caches of weapons and other
equipment left behind by the militants
have absolutely no business being inside
a
hospital these findings in the shifa
hospital prove unequivocally that it was
used for terrorism in complete violation
of international
law
now Hamas has dismissed Israel's claims
as quote lies and
propaganda The Raid also Drew widespread
International
condemnation Israel's military incursion
into alifa Hospital in Gaza City is
totally
unacceptable hospitals are not
Battlegrounds with the humanitarian
crisis in Gaza becoming ever more
desperate the United Nations security
Council adopted its first resolution on
the
conflict 12 of the 15 members backed the
resolution calling for Urgent and
extended humanitarian
pauses Russia the United States and the
United Kingdom
abstained un Security Council
resolutions are legally binding but with
feelings running High all around the
calls for pauses May well go
unheard well for more we're joined Now
by Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lana he's an
Israeli military spokesperson in Tel
Aviv thanks for being with us Colonel
lenana tell us more about what the
Israel Defense Forces found inside the
alifa hospital we we saw the video uh
does this what's shown there amount to
what would be described as a command and
control
center good morning Terry in day 41 of
our war against Hamas a war that Hamas
chose to brutally Massacre 1,200 more
than 1,200 Israelis and abduct
240 uh Israelis and foreign Nationals
into Gaza we are fighting against a
ruthless merciless terrorist
organization that has no regard for Life
Israeli or Palestinian and I say that
precisely because of your question
indeed we have found um Munitions
weapons guns Communications materials in
the shifa compound in one of the in one
of the buildings uh we are still
operating in the compound and we are
just scratching the surface of their
operations we understand a bulldozer uh
was digging at the hospital overnight uh
was that your equipment what what else
are you looking for there
exactly so we've been very very uh um
forthcoming with our understanding of
what Hamas has done to shifa whether
it's overground around the grounds or
beneath ground so while I won't go
specifically what we're doing indeed we
are searching in order to reveal to the
world what Hamas has been doing has done
to the hospital um they have had 16
years to prepare for this day they have
extensively embedded their capabilities
throughout the Gaza Strip we as we
showed in the rantisi hospital where
they had teror tunnels connecting from
one place to another where they have uh
utilized command control capabilities
where they've hidden weapons cachets uh
this is the terrorist organization this
is the terrorist Army of Hamas this is
the reason um not because of October 7th
that we're at a war but we are at War to
make to ensure that October 7th can
never happen again Terry right now there
are grave concerns as you know uh
surrounding the patients and civilians
that are Sheltering at that alifa
hospital in Gaza City where where your
troops are operating right now what can
you tell us what more can you tell us
about the humanitarian conditions there
and uh efforts to relieve any
suffering so we we obviously planned for
this operation and in and in order to be
prepared for it we included within the
forces uh both medical medical uh
professionals and also Arabic speakers
in order to mitigate any uh problems in
communication uh we have distinguished
between the uh locations where we're
conducting the operations and the
civilians in order to keep them out of
Harm's Way and continue their treatment
whoever needs treatment to safeguard
them um you know there was a lot of
concern before the operation that you've
also in do also reported about what will
happen to the to the people in Theos in
the hospital or in the hospital grounds
the people of Gaza are not our enemy
Hamas is our enemy and I would say to
the fact that they used the hospital as
uh and the hospital grounds as command
control positions as a place for storing
weapons it just goes to show that
they're also the enemy of the people of
Gaza I'm sure you're aware of the United
Nations security Council resolution that
was just passed it calls for Urgent and
extended humanitarian pauses for Gaza
will Israel be abiding by the resolution
are you are your troops preparing for
that so Terry I'm you I'm the military
the military is deeply involved in the
war fighting in destroying and
dismantling Hamas which is which needs
to be done because of their uh
atrocities on October 7th but also in
order to prevent that from happening
ever again uh we'll leave the diplomacy
to the diplomats of course as a
professional military we will abide by
whatever instructions we receive from
the
government he of the Israel Defense
Forces thank you very
much good
day